QUESTION NUMBER           ONE        
NAME: Manish Khanchandani
E-MAIL ADDRESS: manishkk74@gmail.com
PHONE NUMBER: 4085052726
Practice Question 1: Crimes 
Dan, the night watchman at The Towers, a residential apartment building, asked Connie to come there at midnight to help Dan steal a valuable antique vase that was kept in a locked glass enclosure in the lobby of the building. Dan told Connie to park her car in the rear of the building when she arrived, came to the service entrance and give a “secret” knock. Dan planned to unlock the service entrance door, let Connie into the building, break into the glass case and, with her help, carry the heavy vase out to the car; Connie agreed to help Dan, who then left for work.
Dan was late to work and had left his keys at home. He got into the building by pressing the buzzer of an occupant, and announcing into the speaker that he was a deliveryman. The occupant “buzzed” Dan in, and Dan worked his regular shift.
Connie left for The Towers at 11:30 p.m. , but got lost. After driving around looking for The Towers for more than 30 minutes, she flagged down a police car to ask directions to The Towers . Then, regretting her action, she told the officer about Dan’s plan, declaring that it was “too dumb to work anyway.”
The policeman took Connie to the rear of The Towers and directed her to give the “secret” knock on the service door. She refused, but when told she would be arrested if she did not cooperate, she gave the secret knocked as directed. Dan came out dragging the vase behind him. The officer arrested both Dan and Connie, who have been charged with burglary and grand theft.
Based on the above evidence:   -  
1. Is Dan guilty of burglary or any lesser included offense? Discuss.  
2. Is Dan guilty of grand theft or any lesser included offense? Discuss.  
3. Is Connie guilty of any offense or offenses, and if so, on what theory or theories might she be convicted? Discuss.


1. Solicitation

Under criminal law, Solicitation is a crime of urging another person to do a criminal act. The crime of solicitation is complete as soon as urging takes place, whether the person urged completed the crime or not. But if the urged crime is committed, solicitation will be merged with the ultimate crime.

A. Urging Another Person

B. To do Criminal Act

Therefore, Dan can be charged with crime of Solicitation.

2. Conspiration

Under criminal law, the conspiration is a agreement between two or more people to do an illegal act. Modernly an Overt act is required in furtherance of the conspiracy goal. Under common law, only agreement is required without any overt act.

A.Agreement

B. To do Illegal Act

C. Overt Act

3.Burglary


 
2. Is Dan guilty of grand theft or any lesser included offense? Discuss.  

4. Larceny

3. Is Connie guilty of any offense or offenses, and if so, on what theory or theories might she be convicted? Discuss.

5. Pinkerton’s Rule

6.Withdrawal of Conspiracy


QUESTION NUMBER      TWO            
NAME: Manish Khanchandani
E-MAIL ADDRESS: manishkk74@gmail.com
PHONE NUMBER: 4085052726

Practice Question 2: Intentional Torts

Booker is the owner of The Bookstore. Walker, a clerical worker in a nearby office, came into The Bookstore every day at lunchtime to browse. Booker became annoyed because Walker read books and magazines but never bought anything. Finally, Booker told Walker that he would call the police if Walker came into the store again.

Walker returned the next day, and Booker called the police. Booker made a citizen's arrest of Walker for violation of the local vagrancy ordinance that made it a misdemeanor to "loiter in an annoying fashion in any place open to the public." Walker objected loudly to the arrest, yelling, "You can't arrest me, I didn't take anything."

Reporter overheard Walker's remarks. Reporter worked for The News, the local newspaper, and recognized Walker because one year earlier Walker had led a movement to remove certain books from the local high school library. Reporter thought that the police were arresting Walker for shoplifting and rushed back to the paper to file a story on the arrest.

The next day, The News reported that Walker had been arrested for shoplifting, in a story headlined: "Book Burner Arrested for Book Theft."

Walker was charged with vagrancy. The charge was dismissed on the ground that the vagrancy ordinance had long been construed to require actual disturbance of the peace, and in this case there was no actual disturbance.

What claims, if any, does Walker have against Booker? Discuss.
What claims, if any does Walker have against The News? Discuss.




QUESTION NUMBER       THREE       

NAME: Manish Khanchandani
E-MAIL ADDRESS: manishkk74@gmail.com
PHONE NUMBER: 4085052726

Practice Question 3: Negligence 

Dick was a motorcycle messenger for Couriers, a courier service in Newtown . On the job Dick drives a new “Hondo” motorcycle Couriers recently purchased from Dealer. In the sales contract the manufacturer, Hondoco, expressly warranted the product free from defects but disclaimed liability for any consequential losses that might result from a defect in the product.

While there was no state statute, Couriers had a rule that Dick must wear a helmet when riding the motorcycle. He often failed to comply and Couriers was unaware of this because Dick would drive away with his helmet on and then take it off.

On Monday Dick left to make an urgent delivery of important documents on the other side of Newtown . Soon he discovered the new Hondo had a slow gasoline leak, and the fuel all drained out onto the street. It took an hour to repair the leak and get new fuel.

Because he was late Dick took a different route across town without wearing his helmet. As he went under an overpass a bottle thrown from above hit him on the head, seriously injuring him, and he fell off the motorcycle.

The Hondo continued speeding down the street without a rider and seriously injured a pedestrian, Paul. Paul had seen the motorcycle coming at him, but raced across the street in front of it anyway because he was trying to catch his regular bus.

Couriers lost its account because the documents Dick was carrying failed to be delivered that day. Hondoco agreed to replace the motorcycle, but refused to compensate Couriers for the lost account. Prior to Dick’s accident Hondoco had discovered that many other Hondos had experienced the same fuel leak problem.

On what theory or theories, if any, may Paul sue to recover damages from Dick and Couriers, and what defenses might Dick and Couriers assert? Discuss.
On what theory or theories, if any, may Dick sue to recover damages from Hondoco? Discuss.
May Couriers recover damages from Hondoco on any of the theories asserted by Dick against Hondoco? Discuss.


QUESTION NUMBER       FOUR         
NAME: Manish Khanchandani
E-MAIL ADDRESS: manishkk74@gmail.com
PHONE NUMBER: 4085052726

Practice Question 4: Common Law of Contracts 

Owen gave Bill and other contractors detailed plans for a swimming pool and bath house to be built on Owen’s lot and asked them for bids. Bill offered to do the work for $19,500, but because of an oversight his bid was $500 lower than it should have been. But for the mistake his bid would have been $20,000.

The next lowest bid received by Owen totaled $20,100. None of the bids received by Owen exceeded $25,000.

Owen accepted Bill’s bid. They signed a detailed contract that said:

(a)        “Payment will be made in two equal installments. The first installment will be due upon completion of excavation and prepa­ration of foundations. Final payment is due on completion of job.”

(b)        “Performance by Bill is to be satisfactory to Owen.”

Two days later Bill discovered the error in his bid. Deter­mined to collect payment of the first installment, Bill did not tell Owen about his error until he had completed the first phase of construction and received the first payment of $9,750. Then Bill told Owen about his error and refused to continue construction unless Owen agreed to pay him $500 more at the end of the project.

Gary learned of Owen’s predicament and with­out Owen’s knowledge told Bill he would pay Bill the extra $500 if Owen did not as long as Bill com­pleted construction as promised. Bill agreed. Shortly after that Owen sent Bill a letter promising to pay Bill $10,250 if the project was completed as promised.

Three weeks later, Bill, announced the work was completed, vacated the job site and demanded payment of $10,250 from Owen. Owen said he was dissatisfied with the work and refused to pay anything. Bill then de­manded that Gary pay him the $500 he promised. Gary refused to pay anything.

What amounts, if any can Bill recover from Owen and/or Gary? 



QUESTION NUMBER       FIVE           
NAME: Manish Khanchandani
E-MAIL ADDRESS: manishkk74@gmail.com
PHONE NUMBER: 4085052726

Practice Question 5: UCC

BoxCo manufactures cardboard boxes. On February 1 MovingCo phoned BoxCo and said it wanted to buy 5,000 “Type 6” boxes as shown in the BoxCo catalogue at the listed price, printed with MovingCo’s address and logo in black ink, to be delivered by May 1. But since this was their first transaction MovingCo first wanted to be sent a printed sample for their inspection.

The catalogue specifies that “because of printing requirements, printing color on any product may vary from sample.”

On February 15 BoxCo sent MovingCo a sample box printed with black ink.

On February 16 MovingCo ordered 5,000 boxes to be delivered on May 1. On the order form they specified, “Strict adherence to terms and sample is required.”

BoxCo delivered 4,500 boxes on May 1 with a notation that it would deliver the remaining 500 boxes by June 1. Each box was printed with dark blue ink, which BoxCo believed would suit MovingCo needs.

MovingCo refused to pay for the boxes and demanded that BoxCo take them back. BoxCo gave notice of intent to cure the breach and requested time to do that.

MovingCo refused BoxCo’s offer to cure and immediately bought 5,000 similar boxes from a competing supplier for $1.20. It demands that BoxCo pay it the extra $1,000 it spent to cover.

After spending $300 to store the unwanted boxes waiting for BoxCo to come get them, MovingCo sold the 4,500 boxes to Salvage on May 15 for $3,500 without giving notice to BoxCo.

BoxCo concedes that MovingCo sold to Salvage in good faith and a commercially reasonable manner but demands $4,500 arguing that by selling the boxes without giving notice MovingCo effectively ‘bought’ the boxes for the contract price.

MovingCo argues that it should only pay BoxCo $2,200, calculated as the $3,500 it received at salvage less the $300 storage charges and $1,000 cover costs.

What are the rights and remedies of each party?
